Now in this video we are gonna take a look
at using ControllerAdvice to handle errors.
Our little recipe application is still fragile
in a few spots.
Let me show you a failure here.
So I got it up and running
and what we wanna do is come over here
and lets get rid of this.
And let's go in and we're gonna update it.
And our cook time,
let's set that to alpha numeric,
so a string value that's not a number,
and when we Submit it we just go to a blank page.
So this really isn't user friendly, is it?
So what we wanna do is do something
a little bit more there
so let's take a look at under the covers what's happening.
We're getting validation failed.
So right here, this last message here, saying that.
Actually, I can completely clear the log messages.
If I come back and just resubmit that.
That's the only thing that I'm getting there.
Now, this is coming out
of the ResponseStatusExceptionHandler.
I just hit command-O to bring that up.
So let's jump over and take a look at that.
What we wanna do is let's inspect this in the debugger.
So I'm gonna stop this, come over here
and stop the Spring Boot application.
And I'm gonna restart it and the debugger.
We wanna take a look
and see what's going on here a little bit closer.
Now, we are back up and running.
Let's come back over here.
We're gonna refresh that.
And now lets come in and do that same update again.
Set that to the String value and hit Submit.
Now we hit the break point and we can see that we have this,
it's throwing an exception of a WebExchangeBindException.
And, ultimately, under the covers it's saying
that we weren't able to do a BeanPropertyBindingResult
because we were throwing a type mismatch.
And if you look, even here in the RecipeController,
if I set a break point here ...
And let's go ahead and let this play again.
And you might initially think, "Well, wait a second,
I should be getting into the controller,
because I'm not even getting to my BindingResult
But what's happening is this is failing within the framework
so it's trying to do the binding
of that RecipeCommand object even before it gets
to your save or update method inside the controller.
So that's an important concept to understand
that this is happening within the framework.
And what we can do is we had something similar before,
and it's @ControllerAdvice and we were returning back
this ResponseStatus.
So let's bring this back to life and do that.
We'll import that class.
Can also do a BAD_REQUEST for the status.
An @ExceptionHandler, but this time rather
than a NumberFormatException, we want this WebExchange,
a WebExchangeBindException.
And now we're gonna return back a String
rather than modelAndView.
Remember the modelAndView is specific the Servlet API.
And I'm gonna say Handling
Binding.
We'll make that binding.
So we're handling a binding exception
and we're gonna output that.
Don't need the ModelAndView
because that is Servlet specific.
And this here is actually the view name
that we wanna return.
So we can set up this handler to return back that.
And now what we're gonna do is
we've got the exception we can also pass in the model.
Go ahead and port that.
Don't need that line anymore.
Now we're gonna bind the exception to the model.
So this will be a little bit cleaner.
And I'm gonna put a break point.
Okay I already got a break point here.
So let's go ahead and restart this.
Now we're gonna use that error handling that we had before,
and remember that we set up that 400 error page,
and we're gonna add a little bit nicer exception handling
rather than just showing a blank page.
So let's come back over here.
And back up.
And refresh.
Come in here, update.
Random string there.
Now we can see that we fall into our ControllerAdvice.
And we're gonna handle that.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit play.
And notice that we did not hit this break point here.
We went right by that.
So now our custom ExceptionHandler,
our custom ControllerAdvice is handling that error.
And now we can see this is a little bit nicer.
So it actually gives you something to go on
rather than just a blank screen.
So this is a much nicer,
obviously you could enhance it from here
to do something more elaborate than this.
But here we're getting a hook on to the bad request
and we are able to return back
some information to the end user.
Obviously, we could dress this up quite a bit
because we do have the messages here
that we could, just like we did before
in the form validation, we could put it here
or add additional logic.
So there's a number of things that we could do here.
But this is going to be a global handler.
I'm just showing you how to set up a global handler here
for bind exceptions.
And again, this is being caused
because I put in a String value for a numeric value.
And the Spring framework stopped it.
Originally we were going to the default error handler,
which really has no logic at all as far as
what it displays for an error message to the end user.
Now we've revived our ControllerAdvice.
You remember before we had this we were
using the ModelAndView, so we could not use that anymore
because that is part of the Servlet API.
Now this probably should,
I expect this also would work in a Servlet environment
should we ever take the application back
to a non-reactive application and decide to use the Servlet.
But this is a good example of taking and transitioning
something that we had before to utilize now
in a reactive environment without the Servlet API.